thousand seven hundred and eighty-six
below ten thousand which is a big deal
for us you have to go back to like May
18th the 19th do you see where to get
near that number the March ups are the
number of total hospitalizations again
is down the number of intubations is
down and that's really good news because
intubation is generally bad news the
number of new cases is 789 that's good
news we were hovering at about 900 1000
that maybe just a reporting anomaly
because this is over the weekend and the
weekend reporting tends to be a little
different and remember this reporting
system we just put in place this never
happened before where hospitals were
reporting on a daily basis so and
hospitals have a lot going on so I
wouldn't bet the farm on any of these
specific one-day numbers but the overall
trend is good the number that is the
most important number that we look at
which is still tremendously distressing
is the number of deaths two hundred and
eighty and you can see that that number
has not moved
dramatically in a relatively long period
of time but the overall direction is
good even though it's very painful I
think it's important that we take a
moment and learn the lessons of what
we've been going through this has been
unprecedented what we've been doing for
the past 64 days this was all an urgent
situation this was all hurry up we had
to quickly figure out a plan quickly
enact a plan but now we're a couple of
months into it and I think
simultaneously we should be learning the
lessons of what we just went through
people talk about this like it's going
to come and go and so once in a lifetime
that it's a once-in-a-lifetime and I
don't know that it's going to come and
go there are people now talking about a
second wave they're talking about a
possible mutation of the virus so
caution would suggest that as we go
through this we learn at the same time
to make sure if we have to go through
this again or if this is a prolonged
situation that we are learning from what
we're implementing Edmund Burke great
Irish philosopher those who don't know
history are doomed to repeat it
wise words the macro questions bigger
than just new york questions bigger than
the governor's questions what happened
in China you know people are talking
about it where did this virus start in
China how did it start how did we not
know what should China have told us
above my paygrade but important
questions how did the virus get from
China to the United States and we
assumed it got on a plane from China and
flew to the United States that was the
first thinking when this started now it
appears that that's not so as we're
going through this what could we have
done differently more importantly what
should we do differently if this is a
prolonged situation or if there is a
next time
and again caution I would assume there's
a next time anyone who sits back and
says well this is the only public health
threat that we're going to face it's not
the case we're seeing increasing threats
all across the board environmental
threats
mother nature natural threats threats
from emergency weather that we've never
seen before and if you look back as far
back as 1918 when they had the flu
pandemic that people talked about it
took ten months it came in three
different waves and the second wave was
worse than the first wave so even if you
put
beside all the modern day challenges
when this happened in 1918 it came in
three different waves so let's be
prepared and intelligent some of the
lessons to learn the CDC did a
fascinating report that have put out on
May 1 which starts to take a deep look
at what happened and I think there's a
lot of important information in that and
it pointed to something that we've been
looking at here in New York the report
says that when they look at the
different strains of the virus in the
United States that there are different
strains and we were all looking at the
West Coast the West Coast had cases well
before the East Coast remember maybe six
weeks before the East Coast those
strains came from China what we saw in
the state of Washington what we saw in
California they came from China flights
from China land predominantly on the
west coast what we have seen in New York
didn't come from China but actually is a
different strain of the virus that came
from Europe that's an important fact to
know and to study they then said in the
CDC report from February you had 100
39,000 travelers coming from Italy 1.74
million from other European countries
where the outbreak was spreading wildly
and rapidly so everybody's looking at
China meanwhile the virus had traveled
from China to Europe was in Europe
spreading from Europe we had European
travelers coming they come to the East
Coast they land in New York they go to
New Jersey they go to Connecticut
they're in the New York area and we're
all still looking at China we were
looking at China
and the travel ban on China may have
been helpful but the horse was already
out of the barn in China the virus had
left the virus was in Europe and
meanwhile we have European travelers
coming here and there bringing the virus
which is now a different strain of the
virus to the East Coast this is from
that CDC report the deputy director
principal deputy director d'Alene travel
bans allowed for the virus to spread
throughout the United States and
contributed to the initiation
acceleration of domestic covered cases
in March extensive travel from Europe
once Europe was having outbreaks really
accelerated our importation in the rapid
spread the timing of our travel alerts
should have been earlier that is a very
important fact and something we have to
learn from person from the Grossman
School of Medicine knowing the number of
flights coming into New York from Italy
it was like watching a horrible train
wreck in slow motion this nobody was
watching Italy in Europe at the time
nobody was even thinking about it today
we must consider an outbreak anywhere is
an outbreak everywhere
Ajay Parkinson and I think that's those
are words to remember going forward
outbreak in China in a number of days
it's going to be in Europe from Europe
it's going to come to the United States
assuming it didn't come from the United
States immediately from China another
lesson we have to learn is our hospital
system you know we talked about our
hospital system we don't really have a
public health system we have a hospital
system and we learned the hard way about
the capacity the equipment and the
management of our hospital system New
York City we have only 12 public
hospitals they are the Health and
Hospitals corporation they're run by New
York City but there's only 12 hospitals
in that public hospital system 44
hospitals or private hospitals they're
private institutions they're regulated
by the state but they are private
institutions they have their own area of
expertise they have their own base of
clientele and they're doing business as
individual entities like an individual
college right we don't we have a system
of colleges but each college is
individual it's the same thing with
hospitals each hospital is an individual
entity long island we have four public
hospitals we have 19 private hospitals
Westchester one public hospital 12
private Rockland one public to private
Hudson Valley the rest of the state two
public hospitals 87 private hospitals so
really your health care capacity in this
state is all in the hands of private
hospitals right you have a hundred and
seventy-six private hospitals in the
state that's the capacity but that means
you have to now rely on those private
hospitals get them all to be part of one
system which day-to-day that does not
happen they're operating themselves we
have again state regulations that say
this is how much you must operate but
they operate as individual entities in
the middle of this outbreak we had to go
back and do what we call the surgeon
flex management system where we said to
all 176 private hospitals we have to
work together and we have to manage this
system as one because hospitals are
getting overwhelmed maybe within the
public system they can share patients
and doctors and staff because you have
in New York City HNH s 12 hospitals okay
you can share among your 12 but we have
to get these 176 hospitals now all to
work together even with the public
hospital
and hospitals were getting overwhelmed
so now you need a system to share
patient capacity share equipment share
ventilators share staff that had never
been done we did this all basically on
the fly and we put together a puck de
facto public health system but it was a
lot to do on the fly and we need to
institutionalize these lessons part of
what we have to learn is what happened
with the equipment I mean this was just
a situation that nobody anticipated it
happened all across the country you
couldn't get enough gowns you couldn't
get enough masks we're going to put in a
state requirement now that every
hospital has to have a 90 day supply
stockpile their own stockpile of all the
PPE equipment that they could need for a
90 day supply at the rate of usage that
we saw with this covert virus so every
hospital has to have 90 day supply
period we can't go through this day to
day moving masks all across the state
right this mad scramble that we were in
and still are in many ways also as a
nation we can't go through this again
there was competition among states there
were competition among private entities
to get this equipment the federal
government was trying to buy it I'm
bidding on behalf of New York we're
bidding against other states Texas
California other states of course the
country are trying to buy the same masks
from the same vendor we literally won
the bidding up the price I'm have people
in China I'm trying to contact people in
China who can figure out how to buy
masks from China
it was totally inefficient and
ineffective the state of Massachusetts
governor Baker was good enough
work with Robert Kraft who had a
personal airplane that he sent to China
to get masks and Massachusetts was good
enough to give us some of the masks that
a private airplane picked up I mean this
is not this is not the way to deal with
this situation right plus we just drove
prices by our own competition there was
a limited supply it was primarily in
China and then you have 50 states and
all these private Anthony's and the
federal government trying to buy from
China it just it made no sense so let's
fix that New York State alone buy is
about two billion dollars of medical
supplies this year two billion dollars
this year and that's one state and
that's us purchasing from China and
around the world we're going to form a
consortium with our seven northeast
partner states which by about five
billion dollars worth of equipment and
supplies that will then increase our
market power when we're buying and we
will buy as a consortium prices a
consortium for PPE equipment ventilators
medical equipment whatever we need to
buy when you put all those hospitals
together all that public health capacity
together which will make us more
competitive in the international
marketplace and I believe it will save
taxpayers money I also believe it'll
help us actually get the equipment
because we have trouble still getting
the equipment and just buying the
equipment because these vendors on the
other side they're dealing with
countries they're dealing with the
federal government why should they do
business with one state right when they
can do business with an entire country
so this consortium I think will help us
get the equipment and get it at a better
price
we will come up with a regional
identification of all the equipment we
need basically it's all standard
equipment a mask is a mask a gallon as a
gown let's come up with a total amount
that we need let's stop doing business
with vendors who we found to be
irresponsible and we found out the hard
way I can't tell you how many orders we
placed with vendors who were acting
basically as brokers who just started
businesses in the middle of this
pandemic because they saw an opportunity
so let's compare notes among the states
to find out who was good to do business
who was not good to do business with
let's see if we can't do the purchasing
in this country and let's see we if we
can't do the purchasing in this region
now why are we buying all this material
from China literally billions of dollars
of PPE and we'll do it in coordination
with the federal government but I want
to thank our neighbors our neighboring
states the word neighbor has a different
connotation you don't normally think of
the surrounding states as neighbors you
think of the person next door is a
neighbor but they are neighbors and
they've acted as neighbors I can't tell
you how supportive governor Murphy in
New Jersey and governor Lamont in
Connecticut and all the other governors
in our coalition have been literally
where you can pick up a phone and I can
say I need help with masks do you have
any extra masks do you have any extra
gowns can I borrow this can I borrow
that really the way you would deal with
a neighbor in an extraordinary
circumstance right you'd knock on the
door and say can I borrow this that's
how these states responded and it was
really a beautiful generous way of
operating that that was an inspiration
to me you know it wasn't I'll have my
lawyer call your lawyer it was whatever
I can do I'll do
and in that spirit we want to keep that
coalition together and we want to work
together we're doing regional planning
now on the reopening because every state
is linked to every other state we do
something in New York it affects New
Jersey Connecticut Delaware etc people
are very mobile right now so it's a very
important relationship for us both
productively and from an efficiency
point of view and they have been great
and they're joining us today we have
governor Phil Murphy with us governor
Ned Lamont Governor Tom wolf and
Governor John Carney and we'll start
with our neighbor from the great state
of New Jersey governor Phil Murphy
how are you governor Murphy beyond with
you I will be brief and say I echo
literally everything you've said
including the confidence of the party in
terms of what this is bit like the
deficiencies as well as the inspiration
with which was derived from our arteries
notably beginning with you and all the
other governors who are on this today it
has been truly an inspiration so on
behalf of a nine million that was in New
Jersey I say thank you you know we are
we are in the state note we're very
power owning and bartering for equipment
PPE ventilators etc well doing it
someone said to me
couple days ago that balance can be
public evaluators and so we're still out
there until the notion of coordinating
together as a region makes enormous
amount of sense for signing up inside
New Jersey uh we've moved in New Jersey
alone to be one of those people
in the past two months a line of
business we were to get beforehand it
makes so much sense it really looked
forward again if you suggested we
coordinated actively as we hold our
government in out of a Regional Council
will includes not just the governor's on
today is but also right on Massachusetts
this is a perfect attention of that
relationship but I go what are your here
your comments that not only should not
have to be scouring the world for this
cannot be made the USA and better yet
made in our states and so that's
something that I think we all want to
strive for we're doing that New Jersey
look you're out a way to make this cup
here and lastly and you said this we've
all gonna do within our own four walls
the regional cooperation that are so
much a great example of that it's a
brilliant extension of art our ongoing
cooperation and then the last thing none
of us is in the partnership will do
government as you rightfully point out
we have all of the above with what's
good for our own citizens with people in
the region and worthlessly
a federal government every step of the
way thank you for having me on today
thank you government to each of our
governors in this group and really
looking forward to working with you it
was a better day to head thank you thank
you very much governor Murphy I think
the governor's on this phone we've we've
learned so much about PPE over the past
few weeks I think we can go make gowns
ourselves at this point I think I think
people are now give us some sewing
machines I think we can we can actually
contribute so thank you very much Phil
god bless you and stay well and anything
you need we here thank you
we'll go now to governor Lamont great
state of Connecticut governor Lamont
thank you very much for being with us
and thank you for all you've done not
just for the people of Connecticut but
for the entire northeast good to be with
you ned and and back a Connecticut New
York and anger grumbles that are very
for the neighbor of course and as you
know we got into this together we
realized what we had to do when it came
to closing down parts of our service
economy we did that together we're
opening it up together and that's the
way it works best and as you point out
when it comes to the purchasing look we
can we've learned something right we can
wait for the national stockpile we
wait for that plane to land from China
let's see what we could do ourselves and
as you point out we're much stronger
together I wouldn't mind having some of
that New York purchasing power thanks
for sharing that with Connecticut going
forward and just as importantly um what
we can produce together as well I mean
film earth you've got that amazing
pharmaceutical industry era New Jersey
help us out with the reagents and what
we can do in terms of uh gowns from
being produced in Rhode Island but we
can all do together to make sure that
this next round we control more of our
own destiny and to those who say you
know where you've been and you're
ordering up all the Christmas trees and
they're gonna arrive on December 26th I
say I'm afraid this is still pressed
beginning as you pointed out Governor
Cuomo and we're planning for the next
round of this if there isn't next round
making sure that we control our own
destiny going forward we do a much
better together thanks for getting us
together Andrew no my pleasure thank you
very very much Governor on your right
look we're spending billions of dollars
why not buy from our own vendors in our
own region why are we buying from China
right I'm sure there are a lot of
businesses within our own states that if
they knew they had that kind of
purchasing that they were looking at
that they would either adopt their
businesses or grow their businesses so
we could buy from them a plus you're
right we would control our own destiny
rather than everyone trying to figure
out how to buy from China so thank you
very much governor Lamont god bless you
we're here thank you
let's go now to Governor wolf from
Pennsylvania good to be with you Tom
thank you very much for everything
you've been doing ad thank you for being
a great neighbor to the state of New
York and all your surrounding states
thank you good well thank you very much
for organizing this again a few weeks
ago we all got together and announced
that we were going to work together to
fight this this pandemic and we said
then that by working together we can do
a lot more
then we can do with each of us works on
our own and I think today is a specific
example of that we can work together to
buy the things that we need to allow our
healthcare systems they have a capacity
it needs to fight this this fight we
need to help our hospitals we need to
help our healthcare workers we need to
help our long-term care facilities our
first responders all those things and
what you're doing here and what we're
doing is actually pulling together to
make sure we're doing all those all
those things and part of this is testing
it's not just the equipment we really
need to work together to build the
capacity to test we're not going to be
able to give our citizens the confidence
they need to go back to work they're not
gonna have the confidence we need them
to have to go back to school or go back
to the store or to go back to worship so
all those things are really important
and by working together we can we can
pool our financial resources it's really
important as significant as you pointed
out
Governor Cuomo we can actually pull the
brainpower that exists the great
institutions in our in our areas and the
manufacturers who can make this stuff
all that we can pull together and and if
we can do that with with even with
something as difficult as testing I
think we're gonna make sure that we get
through this in the best possible way so
thank you for pulling us together this
is really important and I'm proud to be
with you thank you thank you governor
wolf and you're so right look we are
we're creating in some ways new
industries right who ever heard of the
testing industry or the tracing industry
or these reagents that all these tests
now use even the demand on PPE I mean
this is a whole new world for all of us
but there's also an economic opportunity
in it and we should take advantage of it
because we need it and it's not going
away and it's going to be a major
industry going forward so let's make
sure it happens here but Tom thank you
very much thank you for all the help and
thank you for everything you're doing
really you're an inspiration to all of
us thank you Tom and we have Governor
John Carney with us from Delaware John
thank you very much
being with us thank you for all the help
thank you for all the support thank you
for the friendship through all of this
which is also very important just the
the personal support is important as
we're going through this as colleagues
thanks for being with us today John yeah
thank you
Governor Cuomo for including Delaware in
this coalition thank you for your great
leadership there in the state of New
York and particularly Metro New York
City with your colleague governor's on
either side of you you're an inspiration
frankly to all of us our hearts go out
to you as we see the numbers I was
really happy to see your numbers on the
chart at the beginning of your
conference today as they a trend
downward that's really a very good and
positive thing and thanks for including
us a state of we'd like to refer to
ourselves as a state of neighbors
there's just shy of a million
Delawareans here on the southern end of
this geographic coalition on this side
of i-95 in the Amtrak Northeast Corridor
which connects all of us the two
governor's at the bottom of my screen
are great partners governor wolf and
governor Murphy on either side of the
state of Delaware really important our
coordination and collaboration but this
particular initiative with respect to
purchasing together PPE and most
importantly I think as governor wolf
mentioned a testing equipment in
capacity is so incredibly important for
our small state like ours to have the
purchasing power
Governor Cuomo of New York and New
Jersey and Connecticut and Pennsylvania
and Massachusetts and Rhode Island is
just so incredibly important for us in
terms of getting the right pricing into
you know if we're going head to head
with New York we're not gonna get it
we're not gonna get it if we're a long
shoulder to shoulder with you and with
governor fee and governor wolf we've got
a good chance of getting a better price
and getting the product that we need and
I think through all this - the other
thing that was really interesting to me
in joining the coalition was just all
the assets that that the other states
can bring to the table in terms of
insulin
to capacity your research institutions
your hospitals because we know that
they're gonna be breakthroughs or we
hope in testing and other kinds of
technology that help us as we respond to
this so I couldn't be happier to to be
part of this coalition a part of your
leadership team Governor Cuomo with
again my my two neighbors here in the
southern end of our coalition and to
each of you thanks for the great work
that you're providing to the citizens or
your state I tell people all the time
it's gonna be way harder the decisions
we have to make in reopening our
economies and phases than it was
shutting things down in my view just
because of the balance we need to strike
there and we will do that working
together and with the expertise that
this coalition and the purchasing power
in particular of this initiative will
bring to it to the state of doe or so
thanks very much thank you thank you
John thank you governor Carney and
governor Carney is writing the it was
easier to shut down then it's going to
be to reopen shutting down was you walk
into the basement you take the power
switch and you just go from on to wall
right there was an urgent need it was an
emergency
reopening is more of an art form and I
thank my governor Michael Cooper natori
or colleagues for doing this together we
also have governor Raimondo from the
state of Rhode Island and governor Baker
from the state of Massachusetts who are
part of the coalition you know you go
through situations in life which are
unexpected okay you do your best and
then you learn from them and you grow
and that's what we're trying to do here
today because people expect more from
government than ever before I believe
this has been transformative for a
generation think about when was the last
time government was this vital I don't
know maybe in a war World War two when
government had to mobilize overnight but
literally for decades
you haven't seen government
this essential to human life literally
and government has to work and it has to
work well and it's not for the faint of
heart
now and people want government to
perform and government is making
decisions every day that affect their
lives and they deserve the best
government right they're paying for it
they deserve it and they deserve
competence and expertise and smarts and
for government to be doing creative
things and learning like we're doing
here today at the same time government
is working we're trying our best we're
working seven days a week 24 hours a day
we're doing a lot of good work a lot of
creative work but this is not just about
government you know it's too easy to
point fingers well this one has to do
that this one has to do that every
person has a part in this
every person has a part and driving
around New York City today
and I was here yesterday you know we are
all a very thankful to our health care
heroes our frontline workers our
essential workers you watch television
the world is nice commercials thank
everyone for what they did and we should
nurses doctors police officers transit
workers god bless them but if you really
want to say thank you make their life
easier by not getting sick and not
making someone else sick an individual's
role is act responsibly and
intelligently for yourself for your
family and for your community we're a
mask
we're a mask I mean that's the basic
step right socially distanced if you
can't socially distance you're in New
York City you're gonna walk up next to a
person wear a mask
okay it's not the most attractive
garment ever created so what well I
don't like you know it feels
uncomfortable unnatural so what you want
to honor the healthcare workers and the
people who literally gave their lives in
some cases for what they did here act
responsibly wear a mask I know the
weather is getting warmer I know people
want to get out of the house fine wear a
mask and socially distance that is your
social responsibility in the middle of
this overall pandemic and when we talk
about New Yorkers together and the
spirit of unity and how people are
helping one another and how tough we are
and how smart we are and how disciplined
we are and how we love one another show
it you know how you show love by wearing
a mask please questions a different
stream you know I don't know some have
said that it's it's not my field Zak but
they say they're two totally different
strains I've heard from some medical
professionals that our stream was
actually more virulent than the strain
that came from China that whatever the
mutation was that happened in Europe
made our strain more virulent once it
comes to New York and again nobody was
anticipating this European connection
you know people from Italy nobody was
saying watch out for those people from
Italy they were just walking through our
airports right we had the federal
officials at all our airports and they
were doing that screening that they were
doing they were screening people from
China still nobody was screaming people
from Europe and the European travel ban
the full-band didn't go into March or
something I admit March we didn't do a
full year
P and travel band so they were coming
nobody was screening nobody was testing
nobody was looking nobody even knew to
look when they wherever they came in New
York nobody was on notice
you know nobody said watch for Italian
people from Italy watch for people from
Ireland and the UK nobody so it was just
we were totally unaware of it then
apparently it's a different stream then
once it gets to New York now you have
that density in New York right and
density is the enemy here and that New
York dense housing dense transportation
then sidewalks in that density it takes
off like a fire through dry grass and
then it spreads it's in New Jersey it's
in Connecticut that whole area but
especially since nobody know I mean
nobody knew right we were doing this
every day
did you nobody ever talked about
transmission through Europe Dave Carlin
cbs2 I know that like the mask your eyes
you talk about the road to recovery and
reopening as being an art form your
fellow governors feel the same way how
much of this is based on some personal
observations in the last couple of days
and gut instinct as opposed to the
numbers and benchmarks you say are so
important a good question first follow
the data I believe you can do this as a
science you know is it science or is it
art let's say it's a combination but
drive it as a science do it by the
numbers
you know we're calculating the spread of
the virus right that is a mathematical
equation on some levels and the more you
open the higher the rate of infection
will spread that is in arguable question
is how much does it spread how fast does
it spread and how fast is it spreading
compared to your healthcare capacity
that is a formula you can plug
numbers into that formula and that's
what we're doing that's the R nought
that's the rate of transmission we want
to keep the rate of transmission below
1.1 we're now at about 0.7 so we have a
margin of error point seven to 1.1 over
1.1 you're now an epidemic outbreak
status so part of it is there's a
mathematical formula and that's what
we're trying to educate our local
partners about in local government you
want to talk about reopening your region
your city your County etc when will the
state reopen my region well here's the
formula plug the numbers in and look at
what the formula says that's the science
of it and with all this political talk
and all these political opinions I like
to stress the science because it it
belies the politics and the emotion look
at the numbers look at the numbers the
art form is look I've been in the
federal government I've been in state
government that was the Attorney General
I did emergencies in the federal
government all across the nation all
across the world so you bring and
educated your word was gut instinct you
bring an educated gut to what I bring an
educated gut to it because I've gone
through this before but educated gut
plus stick to the science stick to the
numbers what does your gut tell you at
the moment
my gut says the weather is going to warm
people are bored people want this over
they see the numbers going down they can
take false comfort oh it's going down
that means it's over no no you never
said it was over we said the numbers are
going down we said roughly a thousand
new people every day walk into the
hospitals oh no it's it's basically over
no well I hear other states are
reopening no we're not out of the woods
and we are this very dense environment
and you can see that virus picked
dramatically and it is not going down
it's not it is going down there's no it
we are bringing it down right that
number was going like this the only
reason the numbers not going like this
is because New Yorkers grabbed that
projection curve with two hands and
pulled it down and that's why it went
like this
you go back to your old behavior that
number goes right back up and it's warm
and you want to get out of the house and
everybody's antsy and I haven't gotten a
paycheck and I'm worried about my job
I know but big caution sign to me let's
watch the numbers numbers are going down
but we are a very dense environment
we've had more cases we almost
overwhelmed the whole health care system
so caution moving forward and look how
people cannot wear masks that to me is
even disrespectful it's disrespectful
it's disrespectful to the nurses the
doctors the people who have been
frontline workers the transit workers
you wear the mask not for yourself you
wear the mask for me it's a sign of
respect to other people and you make me
sick that's disrespectful I have to go
into the hospital I have to call an
ambulance that's an ambulance driver I
have to go into an emergency room that's
a nurse that's a doctor who has to put
on PPE that somebody has to buy and pay
for they have to risk being exposed to
the virus because you wouldn't wear a
mask because you wouldn't wear a mask
you put so many people at risk because
you didn't want to wear a mask
I think that's disrespectful by you it's
disrespectful of your relationship and
obligation to one another
yes we're all individuals we're
individuals who live in a community in
the middle of a global pandemic
just be responsible and show respect and
I don't think that's too much for each
of us to ask of one another that's a
basic common decency in this situation
is there enforcement right now of social
distancing and is it actually safe so
long as people wear masks and keep a
little bit of space for people to linger
sometimes ideally if you're protecting
yourself and your loved ones oh by the
way if you're a member of a vulnerable
population the ideal is to stay indoors
there's no doubt however you can't stay
indoors forever and the weather is nice
and getting outside getting some
exercise getting fresh air is good
staying socially distance and wearing a
mask are basic precautions that should
keep you safe not as good as thing in
the house but should keep you safe but
that assumes people around you are
wearing masks people around you were
acting responsibly so it's not even a
situation that you can control yourself
right what happens to you is dependent
on what I do and how I act I don't wear
a mask I sneeze on a park bench you walk
up two minutes later and sit down on the
park bench or by the way you walk up a
half an hour later maybe and sit on the
park bench and you put your hand down
and then you wipe your face now you have
a problem because of me that's why the
mask wearing and on the local law
enforcement I know the New York City I
know mayor de Blasio has made a real
effort I've said to all the local
government heads enforce it enforce it
because it's not only
the public health risk it really is such
a little thing to ask of people at a
time when people are doing so much so
much
I'm with the transit workers yesterday
they're gonna train to Train
disinfecting getting on their hands and
knees and hazmat blowing disinfectant
under the seats over the seats on the
ceiling wiping it all down people doing
unprecedented work and you can't even
wear a mask we've said this from day one
right we're in New York State and we're
also operating the state of reality will
you ever get 19 million people in the
state to comply because you give them a
summons no they will comply because they
know the facts and because they choose
and deem that it is intelligent and
reasonable to comply and that's how I've
started this from day one look I could
have done a closed-down order and New
Yorkers could have said that with no
words they could have just not complied
with it right and then what would I do
run around give him summonses it
wouldn't work went through all the facts
explained why and then we closed it down
people complied it's going to be the
same with masks and personal behavior
this is a new level of personal behavior
now that we're asking people to
undertake and I think they will get it I
think it's not going to happen because
of law enforcement but law enforcement
has a role but I think they have to
understand it and they have to get it
and I think of New Yorkers you know the
best the best enforcers of social
behavior or other enforcer other New
Yorkers right
I think if New Yorkers get it you walk
down the street without a mask I think
other new you
workers are gonna let you know and as
long as they do that within the bounds
of decorum I don't think that is a bad
thing something regarding PPE and
equipment being manufactured overseas
and would you say that it is time to
maybe I don't know rethink globalization
policies in the direction this country
and then going into the last 30 years I
don't I don't know that you have to go
to globalization policy Zack the you're
not going to change the macroeconomic
forces but I think there is a lesson to
learn and what we're trying to actually
deliver on this is this is a be an
emergency service right in a snowstorm
you have to be able to get solved and
you have to be able to have snow plows
right in a hurricane you have to have
pumps in a public health emergency you
have to have PPE I mean nothing works
unless as step one is you have to have
the PPE
that we have to go to China for the PPE
I mean think about that you couldn't
even get it in this nation we were
started making our own in the state but
that's a national security issue to me
yeah you have to be able to get masks
and gowns and whatever medical equipment
you need so this nation can run a
healthcare system in the middle of an
emergency yeah yeah I forget the macro
economics just from a national security
point of view I think yes you have to be
able to do that you can't be dependent
on China to have the basic equipment to
save lives in the United States that's
what this came down to I mean Robert
Kraft god bless him owns the New York
New England Patriots New England
Patriots haven't done
New Yorkers a lot of favors over the
years but great sports team but Robert
Kraft has to send the private plane to
China to pick up masks from
Massachusetts that's how we handle a
global pandemic I have to call mr. Kraft
and say can you do me a favor governor
Baker as long as the plane is going
could you pick up some masks for me I
mean that's how that happened right
there two major states in the middle of
a pandemic Robert Kraft is sending a
plane you guys want to comment on me
anything no I would just stack on your
point before when you asked about the
higher cases in New York versus the West
Coast the virulence Breland stream which
as the governor said there's sort of
mixed mixed reviews out there but it's
important to remember it's not just that
the triumphs of the travel ban here
didn't happen until I think it was March
16th after they did the first version
where they closed it down to most of
Europe and then the sixteenth was when
it went into effect including the UK
whereas they did the Asia travel ban at
the end of January early of February and
so those flights from Asia go to the
west coast the flights from Europe come
to New York and Newark but look at that
varies end of January you do the China
travel ban you don't do the UK travel
ban to the middle of March end of
January to the middle of March the virus
was not hanging out in China waiting for
you during that period of time January
he got on a plane went to Europe and
then spread in Europe and then from
January to mid-march was coming from
Europe right here that there was this
false sense of security and that they
the CDC was doing testing so they were
coming back and saying there's no cases
in New York but the people that they
were testing they were testing a very
select few that were coming off of
planes from their hot spot designated
regions and then they were letting
everybody else come right through the
front door without doing temperature
checks without checking to see if they
were demonstrating any of the symptoms
that you would have and so I mean in
retrospect what did everyone think was
going to happen
yeah according to the New York Times
report last week they think there were
10,000 700 cases here in February so
overnight look the subway service will
return when the pandemic ends you tell
me when depend on mackenz I'll tell you
when the subway service resumes but for
that
look we don't we don't really have a
choice
in truth most of these issues we don't
have a choice you do what you have to do
we didn't have a choice whether or not
we bought PPE from China we don't have a
choice whether or not we disinfect the
trains I am so grateful to the frontline
workers who show up every day you know
think about what we did here we had to
explain to New Yorkers how vicious this
virus was so they would actually honor
the closed-down this is what we were
just talking about the next sentence out
of my mouth is yes it's vicious we need
to close down next sentences but I need
the essential workers to come to work
tomorrow morning what you just said it
was a vicious virus I should stay home
but now the essential workers have to
come to work yes because we need people
to run the buses and the trains and we
need the nurses and we need the doctors
and we need food on the shelves you want
to see things go bad in a hurry no food
on the shelves right no electric power
you want to see panic and anarchy you
needed those essential workers so god
bless them and we still need them but at
a minimum we're talking about respect
wear a mask they use public transit I'm
not going to ask them to come to work to
get on public transit unless we know the
public transit is safe and safe in this
case means clean
and we talk about the density as a
spreader yeah that's true but also
public transit if it's not clean can
spread right one of the surfaces that
the virus lives longest on is stainless
steel you look through all those poles
in a subway car you have to clean the
cars and I'm very grateful to the
frontline workers for coming out they
need the public transit we owe it to
them that it's safe and it's clean and
to do that you have to close it down to
one from 1:00 to 5:00 a.m. now 1:00 to
5:00 a.m. first time they've ever closed
down yeah but also 92% reduction in
ridership so your ridership is down to
like 8 percent and 1:00 to 5:00 a.m. is
the lowest period of ridership so people
will work literally in the middle of the
night to clean the trains but it's the
least for the essential workers and for
anyone you know we have to be able to
say we our public transit system is safe
and it is clean and especially getting
ready planning to reopen you cannot do
anything without a public transit system
that people have confidence and knowing
that it is clean and they know how to
disinfect it and they've been
disinfecting it I think that's that's
vital to confidence in New York right
which is a big factor that we have to
put in the equation here just confidence
and comfort with the situation in New
York in the midst of this pandemic right
the multi-state consortium plan we
confident the president Trump is still
moving ahead with his offer of the other
things the regions that you need that
promise of 2% of the population testing
or is the multi-state consortium because
we're working with the federal
government whatever they can do to help
is great but this is also an ongoing
situation I don't want to sit here and
just say I'm gonna wait for the help for
help from the federal government
whatever help they give us is great but
it's also clear from the federal
government that it's up to governor's up
the governors up the governors so
whatever we can do on our own so we're
not reliant on anyone that's the best
thanks guys wear a mask in case you
didn't get the mess